[Music]
here's a story for you that really bites
why no aquarium in the world has a great
white shark even if you absolutely love
aquariums and have been to dozens of
them there's one sea creature you'll
never ever come across there
not a single aquarium in the world has a
great white shark at this point you
might be wondering why that is is the
great white not cool enough to be put on
display are people afraid of being
attacked even when these animals are
confined within thick walls made of
special glass not exactly go ahead and
hit that subscribe button to stay with
us on the bright side of life where
you'll see this and tons of other
mysteries revealed first of all let's
see if you can remember what a great
white shark looks like so that you can
distinguish it from any other shark
species you know in case you happen to
encounter one hopefully not face-to-face
of course because then you'll need a
bigger boat these massive fish can be
spotted in cool coastal waters all over
the world
great white sharks can be gray brownish
or almost black but their underbelly is
always white hence the name they usually
grow about 15 feet in length although
the largest members of this species can
get as big as 20 feet long as for their
weight it can reach a whopping 7,000
pounds they use their extremely strong
tails to propel their bodies through the
water at a top speed of 35 miles an hour
the mouth of a great white shark is
amazingly well equipped and decorated
decorated with 300 razor-sharp teeth
these triangular choppers are arranged
in six and sometimes even seven rows
imagine having two flaws between all
those teeth a lot of people think that
these gigantic predators love dining on
human flesh and are just lurking out
there in the depths waiting for a chance
to attack some unfortunate individual
surprisingly enough human isn't on a
great whites menu in general there
no more than ten attacks a year and even
so scientists are sure that the Sharks
don't hunt people down to eat them
they're just too darn curious to pass up
a little sample bite is all after that
they often swim away I'm sure you feel
much better about shark attacks now
don't you anyway
if great white sharks aren't kept in
aquariums because of the danger they
present to visitors then what is the
reason well it's actually quite tragic
great whites can't stand captivity and
simply die when contained there have
been plenty of attempts to hold these
creatures captive in 1955 the first
great white was captured and sent to
marine land of the Pacific in Los
Angeles unfortunately the animal didn't
even make it through one day at the
ocean area yet people still kept trying
to tame the king of the sea up until
there had been 25 attempts to keep the
animal in captivity but all of them
ended very quickly in tragedy
for example in 1992 a young shark no
more than a year old was brought to the
Steinhart aquarium in San Francisco and
transferred to a 100,000 gallon tank it
died of shock within a day the SeaWorld
in San Diego managed to keep a great
white for 16 days back in 2003 but they
ended up deciding to release the animal
back into the ocean the long as a shark
has ever stayed in an aquarium was 2004
the Monterey Bay Aquarium managed to
keep a female great white for over six
months
she lived in a 1.2 million gallon open
sea exhibit and even grew 14 inches over
the duration of her stay the shark
eventually had to be released though
because she'd attacked and killed all
the other sharks in the exhibit well
it's what they do the same aquarium had
several more great whites over the years
some of them stayed for 11 days some
managed to hold on for five months but
all of them had to be released due to
different reasons a couple of sharks
became too big for their britches I mean
their tanks well several others started
displaying unhealthy behavior the
refused to eat or would swim into the
sides of their tanks one had to be
released because it had become too
lively and playful for its own good as
for one shark that was released in 2011
it seemed fine in the aquarium but died
just a week after being set free the
most recent case of a great white being
held in captivity was in Japan's Okinawa
dorami aquarium in 2016 the animal
stopped eating and just swam into the
sides of the tank just three days after
its arrival the shark simply sank to the
bottom all attempts to revive it were
unsuccessful there could be only one
cause of death captivity so what is it
that makes this species unlike its
relatives suffer so much from being
locked up scientists still don't know
much about the great white shark but
they have come up with several theories
one depression great whites live as long
as humans do there are no obvious
reasons why healthy shark should pass
away after just a couple of days in
captivity
therefore the reasons seem to be
entirely psychological believe it or not
depression and shock can bring these
powerful creatures down to lack of space
big fish need a lot of space and sharks
are no different a shark's body is
shaped like a torpedo for a reason it
can move faster over long distances
without too much effort in fact great
whites can make the six thousand nine
hundred mile journey from Australia to
Africa in just 99 days and since they're
moving at an average speed of 25 miles
per hour that means they leap an
astounding 25 feet out of the water
obviously no aquarium in the world can
provide the animal with these sorts of
conditions so captive sharks often swim
into the sides of their tank in failed
attempts to behave as usual three
respiratory problems have you ever heard
that sharks need to keep moving in order
to stay alive well this isn't true about
just any shark species it definitely is
when it comes to the great white this
species is an obligate
Ram breather which means that it can
breathe best only when there's a
constant flow of water through its gills
in a tank
great whites can't move freely so they
develop problems with the respiratory
system what's more a shark can suffer
from hypoxia or a deficiency of oxygen
the thing is that these sharks increase
their energy by swimming faster and
opening their mouth wider and while this
may seem counterproductive that's how it
works with obligate Ram breathers
that's why sharks that don't have enough
space to maneuver can choke to death
from a lack of oxygen for hunger
believe it or not great white sharks are
picky eaters since they need to hunt
down their prey and eat it alive they
often refuse to eat in captivity they
basically don't want to be spoon-fed by
humans well if they're starving they
might agree to eat whatever they're
human capture is offering but it makes
them depressed because of this they
eventually lose their appetite as well
as their entire will to live perhaps
it's the thrill of the hunt they miss
most number five the wrong water
salinity you can't even imagine how hard
it is to mimic the oceans unique water
composition that may be the reason why
according to some experts sharks feel so
bad when held in aquariums as you can
see it's a really bad idea to keep these
amazing and powerful creatures literally
locked up like a caged animal not only
does it kill the poor thanks it's super
expensive for aquariums and it has a
highly negative impact on the oceans
themselves great white sharks are
extremely important for keeping the
ecological balance in the oceans losing
just one shark and dangers the entire
ecosystem unfortunately this is becoming
an ever-increasing problem as the great
white shark is a species at threat of
extinction there are just about 3,500 of
them left in the world the reason for
such a dramatic state of events all
comes down to poaching some parts of a
great whites body are in high demand on
the black
market and go for a crazy high price the
shark's fins for instance can cost huge
amounts of money because there used to
make some sort of fancy soup at
overpriced banquets in Asia this demand
has led to shark finning which is when
poachers catch a shark cut off its fins
and throw the animal back into the open
ocean as a result each year millions of
injured sharks die from either blood
loss or being attacked by other
predators just so rich people can have a
bowl of soup their skin is used to make
clothing and accessories and an oil
called squalene is extracted from their
liver to make cosmetic and
pharmaceutical products they have to
kill 3,000 sharks to produce a ton of
this substance we can't forget about
their teeth of course tourists love
buying pendants made from shark teeth
this practice is so widespread that the
price of a particularly big tooth can
reach $1,000 and a jaw can be sold for
$35,000 it's totally illegal to kill
these creatures and all kinds of laws
and punishments have been put in place
but as long as it's a lucrative business
poachers won't stop hunting these
magnificent but sadly not so numerous
ocean dwellers to save the last
representatives of the great white
species it comes down to us people must
change their attitude and their desire
for products made from murdered sharks
otherwise the day will come when people
will say remember when there used to be
great white sharks if you think that
people shouldn't try to capture great
whites even for educational purposes hit
that like button and if you know any
other endangered species on the brink of
extinction write about them in the
comments below what in your opinion can
be done to save them see you next time
[Music]